(Generated by chatGPT)



Imputation with a reference panel in GWAS

Imputation is the process of filling in missing genotypes in a genotype data set using information from a reference panel of genotypes. In GWAS, imputation is often used to increase the density of genetic markers and to enable the analysis of genetic variants that are not directly genotyped.

Imputation with a reference panel involves using a set of genotypes from a reference panel to impute genotypes for the individuals in the study dataset who have missing genotypes. The reference panel must be large enough and representative of the population being studied to ensure accurate imputation.

PLINK is a commonly used software package for GWAS that includes a built-in imputation tool called --impute. The --impute option uses a reference panel of genotypes, such as the 1000 Genomes Project or the HapMap Project, to impute missing genotypes in a study dataset.

To perform imputation with PLINK, the following steps are generally taken:

Quality control (QC) of the genotype data: QC is performed to remove low quality samples and SNPs from the study dataset.
Pre-phasing of the study dataset: Pre-phasing is the process of inferring haplotypes for the study dataset. This is necessary because imputation relies on haplotype information.
Selection of a reference panel: A reference panel of genotypes is selected to use for imputation.
Imputation: The --impute option in PLINK is used to impute missing genotypes in the study dataset using the reference panel.
Post-imputation QC: QC is performed on the imputed genotype data to ensure accuracy and quality of the imputation results.
Imputation can increase the power of GWAS by increasing the number of genetic variants that can be analyzed and by reducing the impact of missing genotype data. However, it is important to carefully select and evaluate the reference panel and to perform appropriate QC to ensure the accuracy and validity of the imputed genotypes.







## Michigan Imputation Server
### Reference Panel

Our server offers genotype imputation from different reference panels. The most accurate and largest panel is HRC (Version r1.1 2016). Please select one that fulfills your needs and supports the population of your input data:

- HRC (Version r1.1 2016)
- HLA Imputation Panel: two-field (four-digit) and G-group resolution
- HRC (Version r1 2015)
- 1000 Genomes Phase 3 (Version 5)
- 1000 Genomes Phase 1 (Version 3)
- CAAPA - African American Panel
- HapMap 2


